%% FILE BusTables.txt
%% SYSTEM BUSSTUC
%% CREATED TA-100315
%% REVISED TA-100316	RS-130327



BusTUC  Maintenance Manual
--------------------------


This Manual is written for the purpose of maintaining the Bus Oracle
that is produces by Lingit A/S and delivered to Team-trafikk A/S and
later Trøndelag Kollektivtrafikk.
Currently maintained by Endors AS for AtB.

It requires some knowledge of the Bus traffic in Trondheim in general.
Some rudimentary knowledge  of Prolog is also beneficiary as all the
internal tables are written in Prolog.

The important topics of grammar, syntax analysis, and understanding system
are  treated in other documents.

What is described in this manual is the data system that lies behind
the system. The priorities is in the tables that may be needed to be
modified and maintained when external changes occur. However, the 
language, dictionary and semantic definitions rule set for query
production and query system is ideally not a subject for change.

The system also includes a Dialog system (Buster) and interfaces to
speech based interfaces. They are not treated here.


Quick OverView
--------------


BussTUC answers questions about Bus Traffic in Norwegian (N) and
English (E).

The system is to a large extent made up by internal tables and rule
bases. 

The whole system is represented in text files that contain
tables and programs in the format of Prolog.

The main parts are: (program names in parentheses)

   A scanner ( READIN )

   A lexical processor ( LEX, MORPH-N, MORPH-E )

   Dictionaries  ( DICT-N,  DICT_E)

   Grammar    (GRAM_N, GRAM_E)

   Query interpretation rule base ( PRAGMA )

   Query Processor ( BUSLOG)

   Name tables ( NAMES, PLACES, REGSTR, REGCOMPSTR) 

   Route tables ( se below)

   Service programs to create internal tables  (see below)



%% 

Principles :

Prolog has the convention that all identifiers -must- be started with a
lower case letter.  Norwegian letters æøå are allowed. 

Compound identifers are conjoined using an underscore (albert_moe)

It is a convention that identifiers use only lower case letters, digits and underscores.

These principes can be sidestepped by using single quotes  ( 'St. Olavs hospital')

There are a few composite terms that goes beyond these rules:

-- street address numbers

   Street address with numbers

      andres-wigens-street-1.

-- dates

   date(2009,10,18)

-- clock

   HHMM

     1618

The postfix street is common to all street names regardless of
writing (gate,gt,vei etc).

The street number is separated by a minus sign "-".
Street number letters are ignored.

